all kinds of famous companies. The thing
that destroyed them was not competition.
Their very success became a liability.
>> I want to hear the OpenAI versus
anthropic story. Dario was a first-time
founder. Wasn't a hot company at all.
The boom hadn't happened yet. Chat GPD
hadn't been invented yet. Nonetheless,
they were true believers in this safety
[music] mission. And so, one of their
investors suggested they come talk to
me. I told them, "Look, if you don't get
this right, here's what's going to
happen." They [music] were very
determined to do something about it.
They wrote into their charter. Anthropic
has directors on its for-profit board
who are appointed by and are accountable
to an outside group of trustees who are
AI safety experts who do not have equity
in Anthropic. Whenever you see Anthropic
do the right thing, like when they
refuse to release a model because they
think it's too dangerous, think about
how much that's costing them.
>> This new book, Incorruptible, is about
helping you protect [music] what you've
built. What is it that you need
protection from? We all know this force.
I call it the force that no one controls
but everyone obeys that tends to drag
organizations down into mediocrity to
the point that we lose control of them.
What's a broadstroke solution to this?
Harder is easier. If you're willing to
be principled in your decision-m [music]
you will get these unexpected rewards.
But most leaders [music] when asked to
defend their principles can't do it
because they've been taught ROI [music]
based thinking, shareholder primacy.
That's the path of maximum
profitability. That's nuts.
Today my guest is Eric Reese, author of
the most influential and impactful book
in startup history, the lean startup.
Today he is back with a new book 15
years later called Incorruptible: Why
Good Companies Go Bad and How [music]
Great Companies Stay Great. The way Eric
describes the connection between these
two books is that the lean startup was
about helping you build a successful
company [music] and this book is about
helping you protect what you've built.
Eric wrote this book because he's seen
way too many founders [music] lose
control of their company and end up
being very disappointed and depressed
about how things turned out. [music]
This is not something that you hear a
lot about, but it's a problem that
basically every successful founder will
face. Eric shares [music] a ton of
powerful stories and specific tactics
and very specific advice for what you
need to understand [music] and do as a
founder if you want to build something
lasting. Before we get into it, don't
forget to check out
lennisproductpass.com
[music] for a year free of the hottest
and most well-crafted AI products in the
world, available exclusively to Lenny's
newsletter subscribers. With that, I
bring you Eric Reese.
Eric Ree, thank you so much for being
here and welcome back to the podcast.
>> Ah, it's an honor to be back. Congrats
on everything that's happened since I
was here last time.
>> Wow. Thanks, Eric. So for people that
have been living under a rock, you
famously wrote the lean startup uh 15
years ago at this point, maybe the most
impactful, successful founder startup
book out there. And it feels like over
this 15 years, if you think about it,
it's it's gone through all these waves
of just like this is correct the way to
do it and no, this completely wrong. Why
would anyone build this way? This
doesn't work anymore to okay, this
actually is right. I was actually just
thinking about this as I was preparing
for our chat. It feels like the way the
top AI companies are building now is
actually exactly lean startup. Like I
just had the head of product of cloud
code in the podcast. Cass
>> the way they operate. Okay. We're going
to ship the MVP. They don't call it
that, but we're going to ship the MVP
research preview. Get it out there. See
if people care a lot at all about this
thing. We're going to tell you it's not
ready for everyone, but it's out there.
And then they iterate and build. I feel
like people don't give you credit for
like this is actually the way AI
companies are operating now. I
appreciate you saying that and and it is
funny how every wave there's like a
backlash and somebody writes the article
like because of this you don't need to
do lean startup anymore. I remember when
people wrote that about Quibby they're
like Quibby proves that you don't need
lean startup. I'm always like why don't
we wait till the companies are
successful and then see if it proves it.
But also people forget like this is not
a religion. So what matters to me is not
if people use the term minimum viable
product or whatever. By the way those
aren't customerf facing terms. So a lot
of companies that use these concepts,
they don't talk about how they use it.
They just use it internally to them.
It's just, you know, the obviously right
way to go. And it's funny to me, one of
the most important aspects of it that I
think, you know, stands up really well
and it's been 15 years is that so many
of these AI products that if leaving the
models and the underlying technology
aside, these specific products that have
taken the world by storm, you can really
tell that the AI labs themselves did not
know they were going to be as popular as
they turned out to be. obviously chat
GPT they had no idea claude code co-work
like these were small experiments in the
grand scheme of things they weren't the
companies like this is our big bet let's
go and that's that's just so classic
that that's a a universal aspect of
product development that you do not have
the ability to predict the future and
when you pretend you get yourself in
trouble if you hold everything like a
hypothesis you know you get the benefits
of the scientific method it's uh it's
pretty helpful
>> this episode is brought to you by our
season's presenting sponsor work OS s.
What do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor,
Verscell, Replet, Sierra, Clay, and
hundreds of other winning companies all
have in common? They are all powered by
work [music] OS. If you're building a
product for the enterprise, you've felt
the pain of integrating single signon,
skim, arbback, [music] audit, logs, and
other features required by large
companies. Work OS turns those deal
blockers into drop-in APIs with a modern
developer platform built specifically
for B2B SAS. [music] Literally every
startup that I'm an investor in that
starts to expand up market ends up
working with Work OS. And that's because
they are the best. Whether you are
seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unblocking [music] growth.
It's essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit works.com to get started
or just hit up their Slack where they
have actual engineers waiting to answer
your questions. Work OS allows you to
build faster with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready. Today,
you have a new book out called
Incorruptible.
It's a very different, very different
book from the Lean Startup. It feels
very personal in a lot of ways. The way
I've heard you describe the combination
of the lean startup and this new book is
the lean startup was about helping you
build a successful company and
incorruptible is about helping you
protect what you've built. I want to
start with that second part of
protecting what you've built. What is it
that you need protection from? What's
this kind of corruption that you talk
about that founders run into? Yeah, we
all know this force in the book. I call
it the force that no one controls but
everyone obeys that tends to drag
organizations down into mediocrity to
the point that we lose control of them.
Now, sometimes we lose control of them
because we get fired. You know, we get
ousted from our own company. Sometimes
it happens because we're like
Frankenstein and his monster. It starts
to become malign or bureaucratic or
frankly evil and we can't figure out how
to stop it. And all kinds of other ways.
I've been I've had a front row seat at
this. I've been helping people build
companies now for a long time. I've
helped people create unimaginable
amounts of wealth for themselves and for
society. And I'm really proud of the
work that they've done. I'm proud of my
the bit part that I played in so many of
these companies. And yet I've also seen
this this darkness. And it's not just
founders getting fired, although we want
to talk about that. But like the other
day, I was out to dinner with some
friends. We were not at home. We were
kind of, you know, away from our usual
uh our usual spots. So someone said,
"Yeah, there's this restaurant. I
haven't been there in a couple years,
but it's really good. Let's check it
out." We go, we sit down to dinner. They
take one bite of the food and then
they're on their phone and we're like,
"Dude, you're being rude. Like, why are
you on your phone? It's just one sec.
One sec." Yep. I thought so. He turns it
around. I could tell that this
restaurant got taken over by private
equity. I could taste it.
And I've told that story a bunch of
times now, and so many different people
have told me, "Oh yeah, I know what
restaurant you're talking about." And
then they name like 12 different
restaurants. So what's going on that
like you can taste the ownership
structure of a company in the food? How
many people have had a famous brand that
they love get ruined? I tell hundreds of
years of these stories in the book, all
kinds of famous companies where the
thing that destroyed them was not
competition. It was not someone else
came up with a better product. No, their
very success became a liability because
the more golden the goose, the greater
the temptation to butcher.
>> Well, that's a very visceral example. I
think about vital eggs as a great
example of this. It was it was in the
news, I don't know, on Twitter, Tik Tok
a while ago. It's the eggs that I we've
been getting forever. This like
pasture-raised organic in my fridge.
>> Okay. I don't know if you saw this, but
everyone was complaining of how they've
gotten worse and they're they have all
like the highest level of toxins and
then they're owned by Black Rockck now,
it turns out. No, I I was just wondering
about that. Oh, okay. Now, that's my new
favorite example. That's really fun. I
didn't even know that. But yeah, like
it's so it's so common. It's the point
now where I was I was doing an interview
with someone who was telling me about a
certain natural foods brand and the name
of the product is the name of the
founder. It's like I can't remember her
name now. It's just her name. That's
what it that's the name of the product.
And she gets ousted by investors. And
he's about to tell me the story. I said,
"Let me guess what happened next." The
board pushed her out in pursuit of
higher growth, higher margins. As a
result, we've seen lower quality.
Customers are super pissed. Employees
are pissed. And now it's starting to
shrink market share. And he was like,
"How did you know? I thought you said
you didn't know this company. This
pattern is so pervasive. We don't even
have a name for it. We live it every
day, but we don't know what to call it."
Well, I know what to call it. I know
what our grandparents would have called
it. They would have called this
corruption, not legal bribery or
embezzlement. No, this is like you're
building a bridge. And if your bridge
collapses and Lenny, I say you're an
engineer and I say, Lenny, why did my
bridge collapse? If you're like, well,
because of gravity, I'm going to be
like, dude, yeah, thank you for that
genius insight, right? Like, I
understand that that is correct in some
very real way. Like we say, well, it's
inevitable. It's greed. I call it
financial gravity. Like there's this
kind of like thing, you know, human
nature when companies get big, when
whatever. Yeah. But I want to know why
did this bridge collapse? And more
importantly, how come other bridges
didn't collapse? And they say, "Oh, oh,
for that we need to study the load, load
factor, wind load, shearing tension."
And we go look up close. We say, "Oh,
look, all the metal bolts have been
corroded. They're rusted. No wonder it
collapsed." And then if you say, "Well,
I want to build a new bridge, but I
don't want this one to collapse. What
can I do?" You won't say, "Well,
gravity. What can you do?" No. You say,
"Why don't we use stainless steel next
time on the bolts so they don't get
corroded?" Oh, yeah. Good idea. So, this
book is about what are the
organizational equivalents of stainless
steel? And the book is kind of
structured not like a traditional
business book, as you say, you picked up
on that. Like, it's much more like a
mystery, a double mystery. First of all,
why has this been going on for hundreds
of years when we all think that the
market selects for value creation? So,
this shouldn't happen yet. It happens
all the time. But secondly, if it's
inevitable, if it's caused by greed or
age or size, why are there exceptions?
>> You're actually going to give us answers
and solutions like because it sounds
like, okay, this is impossible. You
actually have you have some answers for
what founders can do. Real quick, I'll
just vital X thing. I'm not exactly sure
if the toxins are real. Like there's a
whole viral thing on it. I haven't like
looked into it super deep.
>> We both have homework to do now because
like it's what you feed your kids. You
care. I'm definitely worried. Definitely
worried to hear that. I want to talk
about two things that are probably in
people's minds as they listen to this
conversation and even think about buying
your book. One is okay uh I am not going
to let this happen to my company like
this is other people they're weak.
They're maybe they're loose values. The
other is just like do I really need to
do this? There's so many companies that
are killing it. I don't think I don't
think they've done any of this.
>> Why do I even need to pay attention to
this? So maybe let's start with that
first one of this idea of this is a core
thesis of your book. This is not like an
ethical values thing. This is a
structural element of building
businesses in the US.
>> I'm going to make a claim that's going
to sound radical, but is I'll back it
up.
>> If you don't get this right, no other
decision you make about your company
will matter for the long term because
you're not going to be the one making
it. Okay? According to Harvard Law
School, among venturebacked companies
that have the standard best practices
set up that you got from your lawyer,
okay,
only 20% of founders are still the CEO 3
years after going public. Okay, just
statistically speaking, everyone's being
told by their lawyers, their bankers,
their VCs, everybody that you're the
exception. It's not going to happen to
you. But statistically speaking, you're
much more likely to be in the 80% than
the 20%. I'll tell you one story in
particular. A very hot company came to
see me like a year or two before their
IPO. They were pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl
pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl
planning IPO. You know, I build a
long-term stock exchange. I've done a
bunch of stuff that people come to me
for advice about these things. They
wanted advice. How can we structure the
IPO? We want to think long term. We're
really missiondriven company, etc., etc.
And I was going through their governance
documents. I said, "Oh, good. You have
all the best practices, so you're
totally like I was like, the good news
is you're so screwed. You're going to
have to do something, right? Like just
this is you're this is you're guaranteed
to get this messed." And and I I I had
all the data just like I do in the book.
like here are the examples, here are the
case studies, here's the data. You need
to know about this. And the founder was
really concerned. He's like, "Okay,
we're going to we're going to definitely
do something about this. We're going to
fix it up." But then he called me back a
few months later. He's like, I said,
"Well, what are you going to do?" He's
like, "You know what? I talked to my
bankers, talked to my lawyers, talked to
my CFO, talked to my GC, talked to my
VCs, talked to my growth VCs."
You know what they all said? They all
said, "Man, Eric is such a downer. If he
really believed in your vision, if he
really saw how special you were, he
wouldn't talk like that. you're the
exception. I said, "Okay, man. Good
luck." This company went public, had a
very successful IPO, a lot of people
made a lot of money, and then five
months into their IPO, a competitor gets
acquired, and the whole category,
everyone freaks out. Stock price
collapses, and the founder is ousted
after five months as a public company.
Now, if you read stories about the
company, it's people like, "Oh, he made
all these mistakes. Their business model
sucked. the company of blah. Did he make
mistakes? I'm sure he did. Were there
problems? I'm sure. But had he really
earned so little grace that he only got
five months? The same people saying that
the business model is horribly flawed,
they invested in the company five months
ago. Had it had it really changed so
much in five months. This is what's
going on. These um collapses are all
around us and we're being told it's
normal. This is just the way it has to
be. But it's not. These are choices
about the specific structures, cultural
practices, the the management practices
we do on the inside and the structural
the governance practices we do on the
outside. Of both of them, we're being
told to do things that are incredibly
weak. And again, if you think you're
going to be the exception, like think
again.
>> I'm excited to talk about what to do
with these governance elements, but
let's talk about this other critique
that I imagine people have in their head
of just like is this like, you know,
like okay, I need to figure out product
market fit first.
>> Yeah. Yeah. work worry about it later.
>> Exactly. There's so much more I need to
do. Like the chances of this working are
so low. Why am I I have no time for
anything else.
>> Oh, totally. You said something
interesting in the leadin which you said
like, "Well, a lot of other companies
seem to be killing it and they don't
have these protections, so they're
fine." I would actually check your math
so many times when people give me this
argument. They were like, "Well, such
and such company, you know, like I'm
someone was like, "Cloudflare, they are
just a normal company. They don't do
this stuff." I'm like, "Check your math,
buddy. Cloudflare does many of the
things that we talking They're one of
the examples in the book, so I picked
that on purpose. A lot of companies that
you don't necessarily instantly think of
as like dogoodter missiondriven
companies are actually very
missiondriven in terms of how they're
structured and they are almost always
protected by at least one of the
governance structures from this book. So
check your math. People used to tell me
Costco was an example that wasn't
protected. So much so that like I was
surprised to learn that it was embodied
in a governance fortress. You you'll be
surprised if you if you do the math, if
you look into it, you'll be surprised.
But let's talk about the product market
fit thing because this one is really
interesting to me. Generally speaking,
this is one of the most important ideas
in the whole book. The most important
question about how to protect a product
is not what protections it needs, but
when those protections need to be
enacted. And it's basically like that
old proverb about the best time to plant
a tree was 40 years ago, but the next
best time is now. It is always too early
until it's too late. And I'll I'll give
you like the example. Um I've seen this
hundreds of times myself personally. So
I've like l literally been in the room
where this kind of stuff gets discussed
and it starts like this. You're going to
you're you're incorporating your
company. You talk to your lawyer. Hey, I
want to have these are called mission
protective provisions in the law. I want
to have I heard heard this guy on
Lenny's podcast and your lawyer's like,
"Oh, not again." You know, another guy,
right? Like how many good ideas from
Lenny's podcast are you going to tell me
about? Okay, fine. What's this one? I he
told me I need to have mission
protective provisions. He'll be like
he'll pat you on the head and be like,
"Oh, that's sweet, honey. That's great.
Yeah. Get product market fit. Like get
some success. Success is ultimately your
source of leverage. Success will protect
you. Don't worry about it. You say,
"Okay, great. But just thanks for
letting me know. Now you raise some
money. You got these VCs on your board."
Say the same thing. They're like, "Yeah,
I totally am with you. We're on the same
page. We want the same thing you want.
We invested because we believe in you as
the founder. There's no need to do this
now. Let's just do it later. Do it when
it's the more appropriate time." Okay.
You get you got a growth round. Now you
got these bold contrarian growth VCs on
your board and they're like, "I don't
know. You might not want to be too
different from everybody else. Might
make it hard to raise money." You're
like, "I thought you were a bold
contrarian. What?" Okay, don't worry
about it now. We can always do it later.
Now you're doing IPO prep. Now you got
bankers and lawyers and you've got a GC
and you got the and they're all like,
"Yep, yep. This is a great thing to
bundle with the IPO itself. You don't
need to worry about it now. First, we
got to land the plane. Let's get our
house in order." Blah, blah, blah.
Anyway, I've actually been in the room
where the founder sits with the CFO and
now it's like IPO planning road show.
Here we go. It's go time. We're about to
file the papers and the founder's like,
"Hey, whatever happened to those mission
protective provisions?" They're like, "I
wanted to really make sure we had our
customers could participate in our IPO
and I want broadly shared prosperity and
I want this thing for our employees and
all this good stuff I want to do. Do we
uh do we do any of that stuff? I don't
see it in the S1." The CFO is like, "Oh,
you were serious about that?" Oh, sorry,
man. You should have said something. Now
it's too late. You're like, "Wait a
minute. When I talked to you about it
last year, you said it was too early."
Yeah, it was. But now it's too late. Was
it ever the right time? No, it is never
the right time to do this. If you put
this off, you will eventually find
yourself in a situation where you can no
longer do it. You will have lost the
leverage. Success will not protect you
because success is what makes you a
target. That story I told you about the
five month CEO got fired. That company,
everyone who worked on that IPO, every
banker, every lawyer, the CFO,
everybody, they profited from all the
transaction volume that that company
generated on the way up and on the way
down. They're all fine. They're all on
to the next IPO. The they're like u
carnivores, you know? They're on to the
next thing to feed on. Meanwhile, the
customers, the employees, the people
that cared about their company were not
so lucky.
>> Damn, that hit me. That hit me right in
the heart. Uh, and it's so obvious just
how personal and important this is to
you. It's clear you've just seen this
happen again and again in your
>> Oh, yeah. I've been in the room where it
happens, the proverbial room.
>> Okay. So, let's talk about how to what
people should do and we'll poke around
in different directions. what's kind of
like the broadstroke solution to this
and then what are some say three things
say an early stage founder should do
this week next week.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, so broadly
speaking there is a blueprint. I promise
like when we talk about the the the
horrors of living in late stage
capitalism it's easy to get depressed
and just be like I mean literally part
one of this book is called the shape of
the abyss. So you know I'm not I'm not
trying to sugarcoat it. This is quite
grim and if you haven't studied these
case studies, if you don't know the
story of Whole Foods and what happened
to it, if you don't know the story of
Verura, you know, you don't know these
stories, they're really grim and it's
important to grapple with what happened
so that so that it doesn't happen to
you, so that you're prepared, but it can
feel like we're we're so helpless. But
as I said, this is a double mystery. Not
just why does this happen, but how can
there be exceptions to a rule that's
inevitable? So let me just tell one more
story and then we'll get really into the
tactical details because I want to
really give I want some stories that we
can use as our fact set our database to
draw these principles out. And so the
blueprint I'll give you the spoiler
alert I just mentioned before ethos plus
integrity that's our formula. Ethos
meaning internal alignment character
choices integrity meaning the structure
to resist to keep ourselves aligned with
human flourishing. Let's go back in time
a little further. This time we're going
to go to 1920 Denmark. Okay. I want to
tell you about a a woman named Marie
Crowe. She was one of the first doctors
to uh practice in Denmark, like a
credentialed doctor. She was a big
advocate for women's medical education
and she lived a very cool life in her
own right. But she's famous today mostly
because of her husband August who had
just won the Nobel Prize who's a very
famous scientist. And
she unfortunately right around the same
time got diagnosed with a fatal illness,
an illness for which there was no known
cure at that time. it was called
diabetes.
So she gets this death sentence right as
he's weighing the Nobel Prize and he
asks her would she come with him to
North America for his lecture tour
anyway and she says yes. So the two of
them travel to North America. He's going
around talking to scientists about his
Nobel Prize. And one night at dinner,
Maria is sitting next to a scientist who
tells her, "Hey, actually in Canada,
there are these researchers who have
figured out a new technology to isolate
a substance called insulin, a potential
cure for diabetes."
So Marie convinces her husband, "We
should send our trip, go to Canada, see
this thing for themselves." They do.
They are both scientists, so they
instantly understand the implications.
this could not only save Marie's life,
but millions more. So, they talked to
the Canadians. Could we commercialize
this technology? And the Canadians say
they're open to it, but everyone
involved has a concern. We've been
talking so far about the concern of
being forced out of your company or
having it taken away from you. That is
one danger. But there's also the
temptation to harvest what others plant.
The temptation to exploit, to extract
instead of creating new value. They were
worried about that. Now, Lenny, I want
you to imagine this scenario with me,
okay? Imagine that I depend on you for a
life-saving cure. I have diabetes.
You're the only maker of insulin in the
world. In that case, I would want you to
charge me a fair price. Like, very much
so. It's it's a it's both morally right,
fair, but also I want you to have every
incentive possible to keep making the
drug. Otherwise, I might die. Okay. But
what if one day you wake up and you're
like, "Wait a second. I don't have to
charge Eric a fair price." or you have
investors whispering in your ear, Lenny,
you don't have to charge him a fair
price. You can charge him anything you
want. That's what I would live in fear
of. So decades before Martin Skrey
actually did this as a business
strategy, the crows and the Canadian
scientists, they were worried that this
might happen to their new company. So
when they went back to Denmark to create
this company, which they called the
Nordisk Insulin Laboratorium,
they incorporated it using this very
particular structure. It is a for-profit
company. It does have outside investors,
but it is owned, governed by a nonprofit
foundation, a two-tiered structure
that's called an industrial foundation
in the literature. And if Nordisk
Insulin Laboratorium sounds familiar, it
should. This is the predecessor company
to what we today call Nova Nordisk, one
of the largest companies in the world.
And what's so interesting to me about
this story is this structure has endured
and protected the ethos of scientific
integrity of Nova Nordisk for more than
a hundred years. Meanwhile, so many of
the best practices that your lawyers,
your bankers, whoever advisers you have,
they're going to be pushing best
practices on you that are younger than
the trees in your local park. And so
what I want for everyone who's listening
to this, founders, product managers,
leaders, board members, I don't care.
The next time someone comes to you
pushing a best practice and you're like,
"Oh, I guess I have to do it this way
because we live in an ROI dominated
culture. We have to stack rank by ROI or
whatever the practice is, I want you to
be like, well, that person sounds very
smart. They're very well credentialed.
They went to business school or
whatever." But ask yourself, are you
sure they're smarter than a Nobel
laureate? Because August and Marie
worked this out a hundred years ago and
it has held so many attacks. In fact, I
tell a story in the book, and Lonnie, I
know you're going to think I'm
exaggerating, or I know at least some of
your listeners are going to think, "Oh,
America is an exaggerator." I promise
you, this is a 100% true story. The the
trustees of the nonprofit foundation
once had to intervene to protect the
for-profit from this exact temptation to
want to sell it out. And I won't get
into the whole story. They did the right
thing in this case because they had the
legal power to do so. Their intervention
ultimately created more than $500
billion dollar of shareholder value. I'm
not I didn't add an extra zero for
emphasis. $500 billion. So when people
hear about these things for the first
time, it's natural to feel like we're
talking just about business ethics or
mission. It's like some extra nice to
have thing that after you do the real
serious business, now you worry about
this stuff. No, this is one of the most
powerful engines of value creation in
the world. And for a lot of people
listening, this will be the first time
you're hearing about it. But just
because it's new to you doesn't make it
new. The German optics company, Zeiss,
who make the the lenses in my glasses
and yours, too,
they had this structure in 1885.
So I think it's really interesting that
we have enough of these examples to know
that there's nothing inevitable about
this financial gravity. We actually have
a data set. They can be studied. There's
a whole branch of academic research that
has shown, for example, companies with
that structure like Novo and Zeiss, they
are six times more likely to live to
year 50 compared to their conventional
counterparts. We they have superior
return on invested capital. They make
more money for investors. They're better
in so many ways. So, it's kind of a bit
of an open secret
that these techniques exist. So, I want
us to kind of have these stories in our
mind because it's it's going to sound as
we get into the technique, some of them
are going to sound radical. We want to
say, "Wait a second. Is this really
doable for me? I'm just a little
startup. I'm just doing, you know, I'm
just trying to get to product market
fit. Why are we talking about this long
off stuff hundred-y old companies? No.
August and Marie was just it was they
were a tiny startup two once. Now that
company's worth hundreds of billions of
dollars. So before we get into that,
just let's remind people again why this
is worth doing because it's going to
sound like oh my god, this is so
annoying. I have to do all these weird
things that no one else is doing. I have
to convince all these people this is not
not going to limit us and not hurt us
down the road. Let just let's remind
people again just why this is important.
Why this is so painful if they don't do
it right.
>> Gosh, there's so many things to choose
from.
>> So much pain.
>> So much pain. I I'll tell another story
like we've been telling kind of happy
stories. Let me tell you a not very
happy story. So I've been doing this
exercise for many years uh where I would
ask founders um or leaders of really of
any any seniority. I'm just like listen
before we get into the details first
tell me who you think is the most evil
company in the world. And people
sometimes, sometimes they like instantly
know who to say. They're like, "Oh, I
know." But some people are like, "What
do you mean evil?" I'm like, "The
company where there's no amount of money
they could offer you that you would go
work there. You just, you know, they're
up to no good." Everybody has a company
like that in their mind. I don't know if
you want to say who it is for you. I
understand. If you don't want to, it's
okay. But like I'll just for the sake of
us having a hypothetical that we can do.
I would always tell if people we go
around the room. I go on some of them on
Zoom. Everyone puts in the chat, right?
And there'll be someone will be like
Hallebertton and someone else will be
like increasingly like like tech
companies are showing up on these lists
now which when when I was younger that
would never have been the case but now
you sometimes see tech companies there
some see Monsanto or you see um you know
some or some private equity fund like
people are like mad about something they
can name a company usually so it's not
hard to find examples now my father was
a pulmonologist growing up so I was
raised that Philip Morris is the most
evil company in the world so we'll just
use that as our hypothetical just for
the sake of argument today um if you
think Philip Morris is great and you
have different values. You know,
whoever's listening, fine. You pick the
company you really would never ever ever
want to have to work for no matter what.
Now, I ask people to imagine the company
they currently work at. If you're a
founder, you're a company. If you're an
employee, your company, but if you've,
you know, the company you hold dear,
just imagine Philip Morris shows up one
day and says, "I'd like to buy this
company from you for $1 more per share
than it's currently worth. You selling?"
Most people are like, "Hell no. Hell no.
No, I'm not selling. One person once
asked me, um, well, what are they going
to use it for? Oh, sorry. To be clear,
they're going to use it to sell
cigarettes to children. Now you're
selling. Yeah. No, no deal. Of
obviously, f no, I can't actually say on
your podcast the kind of things people
say when they are presented with this.
Um, because there might be that might be
children listening. Okay. People get
real upset at this idea. And and when we
talk about I'm like, "Okay, well, did
you know that according to the legal
documents you yourself signed, your
company's literal charter that you have
right now, and this is not some
hypothetical future thing, you've
already put in motion,
a rule that says you have a fiduciary
duty to say yes in this situation."
People are so outraged. They're like,
"That cannot be right. My lawyer, my
guy, he would never have done that to
me. I'm like, "Call him up. Ask him if
what I say is true and call me back."
And they're like, "He said it. He said
he was doing me a favor by giving me the
best practice documents to make it
easier to raise money." Yeah. So,
occasionally though, people will say,
"Eric, you are exaggerating.
That is not Yes, that can happen, but
come on. Does that really happen in real
life? Is that something I really need?
I'm trying to get product market fit. Do
I have to worry about it?" So before you
tell me I'm exaggerating, I want you to
consider this from the perspective of
the founder scientists of the Vector
Corporation. Vector was a UK company, a
spinout from the University of Bath.
They made inhaler therapeutics like for
asthma and COPD. You've seen inhalers.
Yeah. Med a medicine company. They were
really successful. They raised money.
They went public on the London Stock
Exchange. And one day
the actual Philip Morris tried to buy
them. Okay, I only know this story
because I've been using the Philip
Morris example for years. And when I was
researching the book, I was like, I
wonder I actually asked Claude, "Has
anybody
has anyone ever actually been bought by
Philip Morris?" Like this. I sketched
out the hypothetical and it was like,
are you asking me about Vector? And I
was like, tell me more. There's this
company. This is what happened. Phil
Morris said they wanted to diversify
beyond nicotine. And they were like, oh,
we know a lot about inhaling things, so
having an inhaler company makes anyway.
No, normal people hearing about this
were like, "This doesn't make sense. Why
would a why would big tobacco own a
health company? That doesn't seem
right." So, here were the three choices
that were facing the Vector board. They
had this bid from Philip Morris for 165
p per share. They had a bid from an
American private equity firm for 155
pair or in door number three, they could
just stay independent because there was
really no problem. The company's doing
fine.
The public in the UK was super outraged.
The British Thoracic Society begged them
to say no. Like every person who thought
about this for 5 seconds could see this
is going to be a massively valued
destroying error. But the only people
that mattered were the people on the
board of directors of the Vector
Corporation. They had, I think, two
meetings about it and they just said,
"Our hands are tied. We have a fiduciary
duty to accept the highest bid." Which
they did. So yes, if you think I was
exaggerating, I was. I said it was a
dollar per share. In real life, it was
more like 15 cents a share. So, let's
find out what happened next, shall we?
Can you guess?
>> Not great.
>> Philip Morris spent 1.1 billion pounds
to buy Vectura.
Uh, within three years, they had taken a
$900 million write down and disposed of
the company for Peace Parts. It doesn't
exist anymore to me. These are the
stakes. This is what happens. And I
can't tell you, I feel like Perry Mason
sometimes when like people are like, I
would never do that. And I'm like,
"Okay, I hear you have good intentions,
but can I please see your signature on
the document?" Oh, look. Delaware
charters are public record, by the way.
If you ever want to know have a friend
who's a lawyer, just you want to know if
a company has a mission or if they this
is going to happen to them, just pull
the charter. You can just read it. Read
it for yourself. I'm like, is this your
signature right here? You yourself sign
this document. You don't even understand
how your company works.
uh this is the stakes I think are are
significantly existential and especially
now that we're entering an age the age
of wonders the age of technologies that
are incredibly powerful that have planet
scale consequences to them you know I
think a lot of founders a lot of product
people like they want to build a product
that they can be proud of that their
grandkids will be like happy to hear
that that's how the family fortune was
made and I know a lot of people that are
incredibly rich and so miserable because
the thing their baby it got ruined and
it got destroyed. Why are we doing this?
Okay, let's talk about how to act what
to actually do. And you know, this is
going to be a kind of a high level
overview. Obviously, buy the book if
you're really get want to get serious
about this stuff coming out May 26 that
all
>> May 26. Yes. Thank you.
>> Anywhere you buy books, talk about what
we should do and I just want to plant
the seed of Open AI is probably on
people's minds as they hear this idea of
building a nonprofit.
>> Yeah. Yeah. We'll get there and
obviously in the book I tell the
anthropic story where I I played a bit
part. So, we'll we'll get to all that.
We'll get to all that. But let but let's
start with the easy stuff first because
like when you like AI is kind of like
the humanity's final exam. You know,
you've heard that that joke. Like these
issues are so amplified in AI. Of
course, we have to get it right. I think
it's incredibly important. And I've done
my I've done what I can to to set us on
that proper path. But but it's easier to
see it I think in simpler businesses. Um
open eyes insanely complicated. So let's
look at it in some some simpler
examples. First let's start with the
principle I call harder is easier. This
is the this is the the leadership
principle that anybody can adopt.
There's truly like there's nobody who's
not who you tell me you have no power
whatsoever. Like everyone's got some
influence. And if you have any influence
at all, you can adopt this principle.
Like when I talk to people about
business, I don't care if I'm talking to
two guys in a garage, founders, you
know, or or I'm talking to super boards
or CEO seuite, whatever. Everyone always
says to me just what you were saying a
minute ago. I was like, "Man, Eric,
business is already so hard.
I now you want me to do extra now. I got
to worry about the Vector thing and this
other stuff. Like, like, man, I'm
already just trying to get through the
day." Like, it's so hard. But I think
this is a basically backwards way of
looking at it because I ask people,
could it be just consider the
possibility that one of the reasons
you're finding business so hard is that
nobody trusts you?
If they trusted you, maybe it would be a
little bit easier. Now, actually, this
is not a supposition. We have really
good evidence. Companies where their
employees trust them spend way less time
on employee communications. They have
much better alignment. Everyone's kind
of rowing in the same directions. When
customers trust you, they are, of
course, you have way higher loyalty.
Your cost of customer acquisition is
lower, but also customers more likely to
stick with you after you make a mistake.
Uh they're more likely to try your new
product. Like so many people are like,
"God, customers are so fickle. they have
no loyalty, you know, just like they
only care about the slick marketing from
our competitors. But maybe because you
view these things as extra is part of
the problem. So harder is easier is a
principle that says if you're willing to
do the work upfront to commit to
quality, to design, to ethics, to
integrity, to safety, whatever the
thing, I don't want to tell you what
your values are, you tell me what they
are. If you're willing to be principled
in your decision-making, you will get
these unexpected rewards. Now, you can't
do it for the reward or it doesn't work.
You have to do it for the thing itself.
Trustworthiness is the most underrated
asset in all of business. And the things
that create trustworthiness
by definition stack rank to the bottom
if we do it by ROI because doing the
right thing has intangible rewards but
tangible costs.
So, let me give you another story
because now we've been talking about
like lofty stuff and I want to talk
about something super practical and
that's I mentioned Cloudflare before.
So, let me actually tell the Cloudflare
story. I like Cloudflare because Matthew
Prince and his co-founders they like
they were really anti- consulting BS
talk like they didn't want if you in the
early days you know they came out of
Harvard Business School and so they were
like traumatized. They were like no I
don't want to hear about mission
statement. I don't want to hear about
values. I don't just we making a
firewall and putting it in the cloud.
it's not that complicated like we don't
want to hear it. So for years they had
no mission statement and this is a
critical point. Uh as leaders we get so
focused on value statement mission
statements we forget the mission
statement is not the mission. The map is
not the territory. Mission is an
emergent property of the living
superorganism of the thing we're
birthing. Okay? It's not something you
can slap on with a label. You have to
build it in. You want to have a company
that stands for quality. You got to
build quality in from the inside. Deming
taught this in the 40s like this is not
some new idea. This is a critical idea.
This is what craftsmanship really means.
Okay. So, we know that Cloudflare had a
mission because quite often they would
do this harder is easier stuff and
without even really knowing why. Like
there's a very famous example in their
history where pro-democracy protesters
want to say, oh, I forget what nation
state they were pissing off. I better
not say in case I get it wrong. Pissing
off some nation state were having their
having like state sponsored hackers try
to take their websites down so they
couldn't coordinate their pro-democracy
protests. They were going around Silicon
Valley begging big tech companies to
help them defend their websites. No one
would do it. All these big mega
companies, even like Google, were just
like, I'm too scared. And so Cloudflare,
the tiny startup, is like we'll do it.
These were like free tier customers.
They weren't even paying any money. and
they're like, "Yes, we will incur the
wrath of nation state level hackers to
protect you because it's the right thing
to do for no reward whatsoever." That
was just the kind of company they were.
So anyway, a couple years in, they're
having lunch and one of the engineers
says, "You know why I like working at
this company? I just feel like it's the
first place I've worked where we're just
we're trying to make a better internet."
And everyone at the table's like, "Yeah,
make a better internet." Someone asked
Matthew, "Oh, is that our mission
statement?" Matt, no. We don't have a
mission statement. What are you talking
about? note but it actually was over
time the engineers people worked there
kept saying make a better internet that
was that was how we talk about it and
eventually the founders had to be
convinced okay let's adopt this as our
mission statement which they did that is
their mission statement to this day they
had to eventually adopt formal values
like as you get bigger these things
really matter it matters that you
document those emergent properties
otherwise how are people supposed to
know what they are their number one
value by the way is be principled which
is the ultimate harder is easier move so
this all sounds great It's fun to have
values. It's fun to have a mission
statement when it doesn't cost you
anything. But sometimes it can be very
expensive. Can make your life a lot
harder. That's why we call the principal
harder is easier. One day, an engineer,
a junior engineer, not like some senior
executive or anything, walks into
Matthew Prince's office and he says,
"Boss, isn't our isn't our uh mission
statement to make a better internet?"
Uhhuh. When you're a CEO, any any
conversation that starts this way is
generally going to be extra work for
you. So, you're like, "What is it now?"
It's like, well, you were saying at the
board meeting that our number one driver
of revenue, the thing that causes people
to upgrade from our free to premium
plans, this is a few years ago now, is
uh web encryption, SSL encryption,
right? You said that makes sense because
SSL encryption is expensive to offer. We
can't offer it for free. We have to get
the certificates and pay for them. We
have to do all this extra cryptographic
stuff. It has compute, you know, we have
scarce comput.
What boss?
Wouldn't a better internet be an
encrypted internet?
And he's like, "Yes." So what's your
point? So like why? But if it would be
better, why are we giving it away for
free? And so many people have heard this
story. If you've ever been a middle
manager in a company, okay, you know
this. You're just like, "Oh my god."
Every day someone walks into your
office, it's like, "Hey boss, let's give
our product away for free for no
reason." Okay? Like your job as a middle
manager is to be like, "No, we have a
strategy. Get back on the strategy."
Right? redirect. Hey, thank you for your
buy in and your input, but we have a job
to do. So, everyone's expecting Matthew
to react that way and we be the most
normal thing in the world. This is our
most profitable product and you're
saying we should give it away for free,
get lost. No. Matthew told me once I saw
it, I couldn't unsee it.
And he he uttered the three key words.
He said, "Let's figure it out. Figure it
out." This is the the leadership
principle I think is so powerful. The
figure it out principle. When you have
if you're committed to something, you
stand for quality or whatever, it is
going to make life harder. The best
leaders, the ones I really admire, they
revel in it. They love the difficulty
because every time you have one of these
impossible dilemmas, it's a chance to
teach what you really stand for. So,
Matthew insisted the whole team rally to
figure out how to give encryption away
for free. Now, they couldn't just give
it away for free. He's like, go
bankrupting the company won't achieve
the mission. We had to find a way to
make it sustainable. And I won't go
through all the technical details of
like how they managed to get the cost.
They had to hand roll their own software
and assembly language. They had to do
these complicated bisdev deals with
certificate authorities. Like they
figured out how to do it and they drove
their own cost down. Now keep in mind
that at any time, first of all, they
could have used the difficulty as an
excuse. Oh, it's too hard. We can't do
it. Give up. Once they did it, they
could have said, "Wait a minute. This is
just free margin. We can make our costs
lower and then we just get free money."
when they shipped it, they had to report
to their board on what happened. The
conversion rates for their for premium
product went down. So, they could easily
have bailed out at that point, but they
didn't. They stuck with it because this
is what we stand for. Now, of course,
it's a happy ending story. The top of
funnel increased by an order of
magnitude. In fact, to this day, people
still talk about how Cloudflare is like
the reason you take for granted we have
an encrypted internet. The trust that
they gained is the reason why they're a
70 billion dollar company today.
But most leaders when asked to defend
their principles can't do it because
they've been taught ROI based thinking.
They've been taught shareholder primacy.
They've been taught that that's the path
of maximum profitability. To give you
like an easy contrast, um Andrew Mason,
the founder of Groupon, once told me
this story. Everyone remember Groupon?
Maybe not now. It's kind of fallen out
of public consciousness, but there was
this time when Groupon was one of the
fastest growing private companies in
America. It was powered by a daily email
with a cool deal. And the whole thing
was you got one email a day from
Groupon. They went public on the one
email a day. That's how successful it
was. And I remember he told me the story
one day, you know, his executives and
employees started coming into his
office. And they'd be like, you know,
boss, we need to make the quarter. We
need to make more money. We're public
company now.
We don't want to be better than one
email.
Have you considered two emails? And he
was like, no, one email a day is like
that's our whole thing. But he said over
time they ground him down and they kept
saying they were using language that
sounds kind of lean startupy shouldn't
we do an experiment shouldn't we look at
the data what about the IR like it's
just like what about the ROI and so he
was like all right fine we'll run the
experiment he ran the experiment two
emails a day makes more money so he
couldn't he couldn't say no and
everything was fine for several months
until someone came into his office and
said you know boss you know it would be
better than two email
you should send three emails and next
thing you know they're sending eight
emails and this is not just group on I
have had so many CEOs tell me this exact
story about email frequency. Email
frequency is like for some reason the
tip of the spear where it's like we we
don't really have any way to defend
doing the right thing here. So we do the
wrong thing that destroyed the whole
company. But in the short term we made a
bunch of money. So if you can stick to
the harder is easier principle that is
the first line of defense against losing
whatever it is that makes a company
special.
>> Eric, you're such a wonderful
storyteller. I'm just like sitting here
just
compelled.
>> Well, thank you.
>> Oh, man. I am so excited to tell you
about this season's supporting sponsor,
Vanta. Vanta helps over 15,000 companies
like Cursor, Ramp, Dualingo, Snowflake,
and Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks
including SOCK 2, ISO 27,0001 and HIPPA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant more than ever
before. Trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn [music] more
at vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
I want to talk through just like what do
you do? So there's write a mission
statement. Values is that a part of this
just define your values. Talk about like
the
>> bullet point. So again, no writing the
statement is not valuable. Okay. The
statement is not what it is. The reason
I would use the oldfashioned word ethos.
I tried to write this whole book without
using any trendy consulting language at
all. So I try not to use the word
stakeholder. I try not to use the word
culture. I tried to really go
old-fashioned. That's why I started with
Saul Price. Rather than talk about
stakeholders and mission statement and
values, I want to know who are your
fiduciaries.
It's like a real oldfashioned word
fiduciary. But to me, the question every
leader has to answer and this is every
product has to answer this question.
What is its purpose? Who would you
rather die than betray?
Okay. So if you tell me I want to have a
high quality product, that's what I
would rather die than ship slot. Like
think about how Steve Jobs was like he
was this is a guy who would fight with
people over the layout of the wires
inside a computer he didn't want
customers to be allowed to open and ever
see. That's so classic. Harder is
easier, right? Just it has to be a
certain way. If you know stories about
Ivon Shannard, the founder of Patagonia
today, he's more famous for his
environmental activism, but he was a
quality zealot. He believed that quality
was an objective function and that every
product had a quality level that it
deserved. Most people think that's
insane.
That's why Patagonia is such a success.
That idea is powerful. So whatever that
thing is, that purpose, we have to find
ways to encode it in our like management
system so that there's no way for us to
make money by betraying the principle,
whatever it is. So this can happen both
like at the operational level and at the
governance level. Both both are really
important. people hearing this, I know
some people are going to be like,
"Purpose? Is this some ESG nonsense?"
Like, okay, there's a very funny quote
in the book. Um, Unilver, the big food
giant, we went through a phase a couple
years ago where they were going to
infuse purpose into all of their
products. And a Wall Street investor was
just like, I've had it with this, wrote
this wrote them a nasty letter was like,
look at the point that we're debating
the purpose of Helman's mayonnaise, I
think you've lost the plot. And I love
that quote because it's funny, but
actually what's so funny about it to me
is humble though it is, Helman's
mayonnaise is food. Its purpose is super
clear. And again, if you think it
doesn't matter what the product manager
who runs Helman's Manise thinks the
purpose is, going back to our Vital
Farms question, like think how easy it
would be when an efficiency consultant
shows up and says, you know, I think we
could save 3 cents on the bill of
materials if you just make the pro the
thing carcinogenic.
And you're like, "Oh, that's wouldn't
that come back to bite us?" Yeah, but
long after your stock options are
vested, buddy. What do you care? If the
product manager thinks their purpose is
quality, that matters. If they think
their purpose is extraction and
exploitation, it matters. Again, if you
think I'm exaggerating, the product
managers at Johnson and Johnson put
asbestos in the baby powder and covered
it up because although they said their
purpose, their mission statement was
patient health, their actual mission had
become growth, optimization, quarterly
targets. So, what we want to do is
that's the first most important
technique is like what is the purpose?
Who would we rather die than betray?
Like you got to write it down. You got
to say, as Saul Price did, customers
first, employees second, shareholders
last. Or uh the great Peter Ducker said
it would actually he said that that's
backwards. It should be employees first,
customers second, shareholders last. I
don't care. You tell me what you
believe. You got to write it down. And
then we have to do a a thing I call
mission drive. Companies that claim to
be missiondriven, most of them are just
mission hopeful. Okay? It's it's
It's just a candy coating on
top of an extractive engine. Sorry, I
don't buy it. If you're serious about
being missiondriven, you have to show me
that you cannot profit except by
achieving the mission. That's the audit
we have to do. We have to look at if we
were if someone in the company got
tempted to cut quality, to cut corners,
to to decrease performance, to deal with
like the things that tend to get cut
first, safety, performance, quality,
design, those are always the most
vulnerable. Innovation, I guess, is
fifth. So that's like the fi the five
horsemen of the apocalypse is like you
can get rid of those things and nothing
bad happens right away because the whole
point of trust is I can betray you and
you wouldn't even notice. So we have
those are like the canary in the coal
mine. Is there any way is anyone's bonus
target is our OKR system. Is there
anyone on this team and again you could
do this at the company level of course
but you're just a team a team of five.
Is there anyone on this team who could
profit by portraying one of our
principles? Is it is it possible? And
you mean it's really possible that and
this is actually why automated testing
is so good, right? Like think about how
many people can just like break the
design. No one even notices. Well, it's
a test notice. With with AI, we have so
many new capabilities for auditing, for
preventing, for making sure, but we have
to choose to use the tools for that.
That's one. So that's kind of like the
general like category of things um that
we can build.
>> And so just to just to make sure it's
clear. So it's write down your purpose,
whatever that is. And I imagine it's
like a sentence is the idea.
>> Yeah, that'd be great. As simple as
better, right? Like to make a better
internet is such a great such a great
purpose. I tell in the story in the book
the story of devoted health. They're a
health insurance company, but their
instruction to their employees is to
treat every customer the way you would
your own parents.
>> I've heard that one.
>> It's just so easy and simple and clear
to understand.
>> Okay. So, let's write down your purpose.
Uh describe your mission and more
importantly
the mission. What is it? Drive the
mission or the mission.
>> Mission drive. Mission drive.
which basically uh is is there like a
structural way to do this or is this
just go through everything going on and
see is there
>> it is I mean I I talk about it in a more
formal way in the book but basically I
would say that it is to identify your
fiduciary commitments like who are the
people that you're trying to commit to
do something good for what are the
metrics or targets that you want to have
for each of those people and then um
what is the system the accountability
system to make sure that those
commitments are as important to you as
making money.
>> So, it's essentially these kind of like
OKRs for your your stake. Let's not call
them stakeholders.
>> Yeah, that's what I see how hard it is
to do this. Yeah, that's exactly right.
It's like OKRs for the And I and I just
again people always when we start using
this language, people are like, you're
trying to impose your values on me. No,
you tell me what you care about and then
you tell me how you're measuring the
things you claim to care about. In in
the book, I have a section called don't
be evil versus the quarterly report. I I
made a study of the blog posts that
longtime Google employees write when
they leave Google. It's like a genre.
There's 50 of them. They're incredible
documents actually. If you've never read
them or all linked in the book, you can
you can read them yourself. And they all
have this like very wistful sad quality
to them because something really listen
for the record, Google's a great
company. I'm not saying Google's bad,
but Google used to have this don't be
evil ethos and it kind of got lost. Got
taken off the website. Then it showed up
in the employee handbook. Now, it's not
even in the employee handbook anymore.
And in fact, Google's been sued twice
now for breaking the don't be evil
pledge. And they've had to settle both
lawsuits. Okay? That that's how sad the
situation has become at Google. And I
remember talking to one of these
ex-goolers. He'd been there, I think, 13
years. And I said to him, look, he could
not, he was like, why did we lose it
when we had such good intentions? Why? I
wanted to believe management. He's like,
I liked management. I thought they were
had their heart in the right place. And
yet I said, "Okay, answer me this
hypothetical just real quick. What is
the probability that Google will file
its next quarterly report on time?" He
was like, "That's a dumb question, Eric.
Obviously, they're going to do it." I
was like, "No, but give it a number
probability." He's like, "Literally
100.0." Yes. As certain as the sun will
rise tomorrow, of course. I said,
"Great. Now tell me the probability that
um Google might accidentally kill
somebody and cover it up." And he was
like, "Come on, man. They probably
wouldn't do that. That's not fair.
Put a number on it. Is it 100%. He's
like, "Well, like 90%." 95%. I was like,
and he start You could He was like,
"Well, they got sued for this." He's
like, "What if the self-driving car hit
somebody?" He could He could already
think of the way it could happen. I
said, "Okay, how can it be
that quarterly reporting is like the
thing that we're sure of?" And this and
manslaughter. We think our human beings
like confused. They love quarterly
reports and they're not sure about
manslaughter. No. Come on. What is going
on here? Google will report its
quarterly report on time because there
is a massive, unbelievably expensive
apparatus to make sure it happens every
time. And don't be evil was just a
slogan. So if someone tells you, I'm
serious about something, great. Now show
me the apparatus. Show me the
commitments you've made to make sure
that happens every time. No exceptions.
And if you don't have one, then they are
lying to you no matter how good their
intentions are.
>> And this might be a good segue to kind
of the second bucket of stuff. So the
way you described it earlier, I think is
a really helpful way of framing it.
There's kind of the ethos, which is what
we've been talking about, values,
purpose, mission, and then there's
integrity. So talk about that. Sure. So
why did I use the word integrity? In
human lang in normal human language, not
consultant speak, but like among normal
people, integrity has two meanings. One
is like Lenny, you're a very high
integrity person. If you say you're
going to meet me at 2 o'clock at a
place, like I know you're going to be
there, right? Everyone's got a friend
like that where if they say they're
going to do something, they're going to
do it. And more importantly, if they're
not sure, if they're like, I think I can
be there at 2 o'clock. They never would
say, I'll see you at 2:00. They won't do
it. They know that to tell the truth
requires you to really make a
commitment. But we also, so that's kind
of like the ability to keep your
promise. But we also have the word
structural integrity, right? I told him
before like the difference between
corroded bolts and stainless steel
organizations these two senses of the
word become one. An organization that is
weak cannot keep its promises because
the person making the promise won't be
there. Imagine you got a promise from
the founders of Vectura that they'll
never sell cigarettes to children. Oops.
Sorry. Right. No, that's not integrity.
So the goal of of structural integrity
for an organization is to give it the
power to resist temptation from the
inside, resist betrayal at the board
level and resist pressure from the
outside. As I mentioned, Costco has very
famously has this governance fortress
that protects it from outside pressure.
And people have come for Costco. I quote
some hilarious quotes in the book about
um one of my favorites is Costco takes
money that rightfully belongs to
shareholders and instead invest it in
improving the customer experience.
That's meant to be a criticism. Okay,
that's not what they're supposed to do.
So why can they resist? Because they
have the tools they need to fight back.
Their board sees its responsibility as a
bull work against pressure rather than
as an amplifier of financial gravity. So
that can sound very challenging and
abstract and now we're talking about
board level stuff, IPOs. People a lot of
people are like, I don't have the power
for that. Okay, that's okay. We can
start with something very simple. We
started with purpose and ethos. We can
start with purpose here too. I mentioned
before that most founders have never
read their own corporate charter,
which if you're if you're a founder and
you're listening to this and you've
never read your own corporate charter,
you have a company that is operating, it
is your homework. You have to do this.
You have to know what it says. This is
so common that the HBO show Silicon
Valley makes a joke about it where one
of the found one of the investors is
like upgrading the founder to be like
you don't know how your own effing
company works because he loses control
of it in so like they did their
homework. This really does happen. But
if you do read your charter, you
probably will be more confused than you
are now because you will read a sentence
like this. It will say the Acme
Corporation is hereby incorporated to
pursue any lawful act or activity.
And you read that and you're like, "That
sounds pretty open-ended." Wrong.
It sounds open-ended, but it's not.
Unfortunately, we live in the era of
what's called shareholder primacy.
Meaning that according to this theory,
which is the governing theory of our
lives that we live under this law today,
right now, this says that an
organization is not a vital living
thing. Rather, it is a financial
instrument designed to enrich
shareholders and nothing else. And
therefore, any lawful act or activity
today means maximize shareholder returns
under the law.
People have been raised, now we're old
enough, this idea is old enough that we
now have a generation of people who have
been raised as if this was a natural
law. This is how capitalism has always
been. But that's wrong.
For the vast majority of the time, for
hundreds of years, we have had joint
stock corporations. Only the last 40
have we had this idea. Before the 80s,
it was considered obvious. Our
grandparents thought it was obvious. Our
great-grandparents thought it was
obvious. Like Adam Smith thought it was
obvious. Everyone before thought it was
obvious that corporations existed to
pursue a specific thing, what's called a
beneficial purpose in the law. So in the
19th century, for example, if you wanted
to make a company, you had to make a
declaration to your state legislature
that this thing you wanted to make would
do something that is publicly
beneficial. You'd be like, I want to
make a railroad. They'd be like, why?
Right? And you had to say it would be
beneficial to the public to have a canal
between this place and that place. And
just to get a sense of how different our
best practices are than the historical
norms in the 19th century, if say you
were the richest person in America and
you're like, I want to buy this company
and change what it does because I can.
First of all, the board would be
authorized to fight you to the death.
They didn't have to say yes. They would
do crazy stuff in the night. These
battles were legendary. Some of them are
hilarious what would go on between these
people. But the second thing, let's say
you succeeded anyway. You took the
company over and you said, "I'm going to
change its purpose from make a railroad
to maximize shareholder value." That
would have been a crime.
The courts would void your charter. You
would earn the corporate death penalty
for having exceeded the authority of
your corporation. So, this is a new idea
that we live under. We think it's
natural, but it's very new. So, if you
don't want that, like that's what and
that's what doomed Vector and all these
companies. If you don't want that, you
can change it. The good news for you
listening right now in the year 2026 is
that a band of corporate governance
rebels have spent the last like 15 or 20
years fighting this and building
alternative structures that are
available to you. One of them is called
the public benefit corporation or PBC. A
lot of confusion about this out there
because people have seen the little B
with a circle on it at their farmers
market. It's not that. It's confusing
because the same people invented that
who also invented this and the word B,
the letter B is in both. So, I get it's
confusing, but no, public benefit court
is the easiest thing I will tell you to
do on this whole podcast. Could not be
easier. It is a two-page legal filing
that you just sub your lawyers can
submit it for you in Delaware tomorrow.
You just say, "This is the purpose of
this company, not any lawful act or
purpose." Instead, no, this is a company
designed to advance human flourishing by
creating safe and responsible AI
systems. We advance human flourishing by
creating high quality products and
selling them. Whatever Whatever you do,
just write it down. It's couldn't it
couldn't be any easier. And most of the
best companies today are using this
structure. Like all the major AI labs
are incorporated as BBC's. Anthropic
most famously of all. It doesn't
guarantee that you're the good guys.
Okay? Just writing it down doesn't do
that much. But it does solve one very
specific problem, which is if someone
one day sues you saying you breached
your fiduciary duty to investors, you
could say, "Nope, investors agreed that
this is our purpose to do this thing.
Why has Anthropic been able to resist
all this pressure? This is one of
several of the interlocking components
of the armor that protects anthropic
from the from outside pressure. If you
don't do this, I can't help you, man.
This is like the very minimum. You got
to do at least this. Now, if you're not
at the founder, you probably are
wondering, have we done this at my
company?
This is going to sound so dumb, I know,
but you can just ask.
Okay? Even if you're in a job interview.
I remember someone once came to me and
asked me for advice. They wanted to
advocate for these ideas, but they were
like, I need a job. I don't even work
anywhere yet. And they were like caveat.
I was about to give them some advice and
before you give me your advice, you need
to know that I'm not courageous.
Okay. So, like I can't do anything
scary. I'm not willing to be an
activist. Like I just need a job, man.
But I am willing to do something. But I
felt like they'd asked me for a no bake
cookie recipe, you know? I was like a no
courage. What can I do? And I was like,
okay. And you can do this if you're in a
job interview or just ask your boss.
Either way. that at the end of your
interview, we're going to ask you, do
you have any other questions? You can
say, "Is this a mission-driven company?"
They're going to say, "Yes."
Okay, fine. How do you know? Like, like,
"What kind of things do we do that's
mission driven?" They be, "Oh, we have
free beer on Fridays and we we clean up
the local park on Saturdays." I don't
know what they're going to say. Maybe
something great. Maybe something
whatever they say, just just nod and be
like, "Great." And just ask, "Cool. Is
that the legal mission?" Also, is that
in the charter?
Almost certainly the person you're
asking this question to is not going to
know the answer to your question. But
it's a legitimate question because if
you're working at a company that doesn't
have this in the charter, you're going
to be betrayed eventually. You deserve
to know. But more importantly, just by
asking, you've now forced them to get
the answer. Like you, you know, I mean,
you've been in part of of hiring
processes. Every hiring process at a
well-run company, it's somebody's job to
make sure every question a candidate
might ask, there's a like frequently
asked questions document with the
answer. So, she's going to have to ask
her boss, who's going to have to ask out
her boss and her boss, like I've been in
boardrooms where this kind of thing
comes up where someone's like, "We're
getting this really irritating question
from candidates and we don't know how to
answer it." Now, maybe just by asking,
the CEO also listens to Lenny because
everyone listens to Lenny. The CEO's
also been thinking about doing it too.
But he was like, I don't know if I have
the support of the board. I'm not really
that courageous to bring it up. Now
you've created an excuse. A we got to do
it because I mean it's the thing that
everyone's doing it. Employees are even
starting to ask about it. Like if you
read these postmortems of some of these
like crazy things that are going on in
the AI wars, a surprising percentage of
the motivation of leadership is like we
want to keep our employees happy.
So be an be an unhappy employee who
wants to know what's our mission. Is it
the real is it the real thing? So, of
course, that's not the only thing you
can do, but that is the beginning, the
easiest one on the integrity side. And
again, a company that hasn't done it is
very much at risk of eventually being
betrayed.
>> Are there any downsides to filing this
charter?
>> No, this is the one thing that has no
tra tr truly no trade-offs at all.
>> Okay. Okay. Um, I mean, maybe you'll
meet an investor who's like suspicious
about or doesn't like it. But again, the
only situation this would ever become
relevant is if the investor is trying to
force you to sell the company and you
don't want to. So like you could just
tell them, are you telling me that in
that situation you believe you should
get to decide instead of me? Just can is
that what you're saying? And then you
can ask yourself, is this really the
right partner for you? Someone who would
say yes to that. Like what are we doing
here? All these VCs are like, I'm
founder friendly. I believe in your
vision. Do you do you or like what is
what's going on here? So that's really
important. Uh the other downside the
main downside of almost every technique
in this book is that people will waste
your time trying to talk you out of it.
Okay, that's really like you have to be
ready for that. The book actually has a
whole section called how to talk to your
investors and a whole separate section
about how to talk to your lawyers. Like
detailed exactly what to say, what are
the questions you're likely to get
because in the years I've been I work in
the book for years. I have been writing
down all the objections I've heard from
all the companies I've helped. I always
tell me if someone objects please call
me and tell me what they said. I just
wrote them all down so I all the answers
are there. But if you talk to your
lawyers, they'll say something
like,"Well, you know, you might want to
just keep your options open. You don't
want to prematurely commit to your
purpose." And if I hear that, I'm like,
"Really? Keep my options open? That's
how you get maximum value. What about
the option to convert my customers into
soilent green and eat them?
Do I have to keep that option open?"
Lawyer, you ask your lawyers this
question. They will say something like,
"You never know what you might need to
do." And then we're like, "Why does
nobody trust me?" Well, cuz you won't
even take that off the table. Come on,
man. No. This one has no downside.
Absolutely. Absolute no-brainer. This
sounds like a a great single takeaway.
If there's anything you take away from
this conversation, you should do this.
The fact that Anthropic did this is such
a huge deal because I think a criticism
of all of this that people probably hear
is this is going to limit our growth.
It's going to hurt our potential. You
know what I mean? like touchyfey
business like we're trying to like
capitalism has worked in creating a lot
of very successful companies and value
and innovation.
Capitalism has worked in many ways. Uh
why would we need to do this? And
anthropic being the fastest growing
company of all time just like absurd
breaking all records is uh public
benefits corporation should make you
feel okay about doing this.
>> Oh yeah. Enthropic has helped so much
because they do many of the things in
the book including this uh what they
have we can talk about the long-term
benefit trust. They have that two-tiered
governance structure that we were
talking about before. But like it's so
funny even now even with Anthropic
having such success people still say
stuff like this like oh I'm worried that
I'm not going to be able to raise money.
I'm like anthropic's been able to raise
some money. That has not been an
obstacle. In fact if you ask people why
is Anthropic winning? They will often
cite some surface characteristic like
Enthropic Frey famously has lower
inference costs than their competitors.
The you know they have faster product
velocity than their competitors. They
have um you know what what do I hear?
Sometimes they say that they they have
more focus better focus than their
competitors. Those are the most common
ones I hear. And for each of those if
you say well why you're like well they
have lower infra cost. They have better
technical infrastructure. Why? Well
because they had some kind of internal
breakthrough. Why? If if you keep asking
why eventually like well because they
have the best talent. Why? Because
people want to work there. Why? And you
read because people people like very
much want to work. They want to work for
the good guys. They think this is these
people. They have the the mission to
save the world. Why do they have that
mission? Because that was the ethos. But
why have they been able to protect it?
Because they paired the ethos with the
integrity. This is at the heart of
almost every like breakthrough success
story you've ever heard. you will find
this lurking there as the as the thing
that gave them the competitive advantage
to drive that differentiation.
>> It's funny you say that. So I just had
cat the head of product on clock code
and I asked her just how are you able to
ship so fast? They're shipping a massive
product or feature every week
essentially. They were going through a
period of every day and a big part of
her answer was exactly what you're
describing which is we are so missional
aligned. It is so easy for us to decide
this is something we will do or not.
>> That is the thing. Remember how we
talked about how people say business is
hard? Most people have never worked in a
mission aligned company. It is the
organizational equivalent of being in
the flow state as an individual person.
It's a great feeling and it it just
makes everything easier. Like you don't
like you don't have to have meetings
about stuff. You don't have mission
misalignment. Like in most organizations
you have people who I call the
torchbearers
which are like the rare person in an
organization who's simply committed to
doing the right thing no matter what.
Steve Jobs very famously would host have
skip level meetings. He wanted to meet
not with his his direct subordinates. He
didn't care. He wanted to meet with the
torchbears throughout the organization.
He those are the people that are going
to drive us forward. And and if you're a
torchbearer, you're just like think
about like the designer who simply won't
ship slop no matter what. The engineer
who will like not sacrifice quality or
performance, right? That they just you
meet these people every once in a while,
product manager who just they are
prioritizing the right things even if
people complain. In a traditional
company, if you have that job, if people
listening, if you've ever had this job,
man, life sucks. Every freaking day,
someone's in your office with a
spreadsheet being like, "But what is the
ROI of doing the right thing?" And
you're just like, "I don't know. It's
just the right thing."
In a mission aligned company, this
doesn't happen two different way.
There's two different like antibodies
that protect against this. First of all,
since everyone's mission align, no one's
bothering to make the spreadsheet.
There's no need. The late great Clay
Christensen once said that it's easier
to do the right thing 100% of the time
than 98% of the time. Just like because
now you don't have to have a meeting
about it. We just you don't have like at
an like oh I came up with this crazy
unsafe thing that will make us an extra
dollar. We don't have to have a meeting
about it. I already can tell you we're
not going to do it. We already know. So
it's just incredibly you know everyone's
incredibly aligned. But the second thing
that I think is less appreciated is a
practice I call the culture bank,
which is when you start to see
trustworthiness as an asset, you start
to realize that certain actions build
that asset and others take it away. So,
let me teach you a rule I learned from
from one of the one of my favorite
founders, Todd Park. He created Devoted
Health, the health insurance company I
was mentioning before. Um, but but he
learned it from Howard Schultz, who
built Starbucks. Like if you see in
strong culture companies you always see
this pattern where you've taught people
that whenever you do the right thing
that is you do something in defense of
the company's values that has a
sacrifice to it saying the values
enchanting them you know making a song
out of them that's not it but if you do
something you know I tell a story about
this grocery store in Texas called HB
where there was a the power went out
there was an ice storm and the manager
let all the customers just take their
groceries home no charge because the
point of sale system wasn't People say,
"Oh, what a what a courageous manager."
No, that's what they train people in at
HB that you're making a deposit in the
culture bank when you do the right
thing. So deposits, you make a
sacrifice. A withdrawal is the opposite.
You do something greedy, self-interested
for the organization. The Todd Park
rule, as I call it, everyone who hears
this rule, the first time they hear it
tells me it's impossible and you can't
do it. It doesn't make sense. But this
is the rule is really simple.
only make deposits.
Never make withdrawals.
That's it. Because you're going to make
withdrawals by accident sometimes
because you're gonna make mistakes, but
you never intentionally make a
withdrawal. And that I think is the true
power. Like when you hear someone who's
living that flow like cat you were
talking about anthropic that has been
internalized in the organization. Uh
it's what what the pioneering management
theorist Mary Parker followed the
invisible leader. the person, the thing
that people follow. Even when no manager
is present, so no one has to be in the
room to remind you to do it, you just do
it because you've internalized that this
is what we're all about. And when
everyone around you is doing that same
thing, the whole velocity of the whole
organization increases exponentially. I
want to hear the uh kind of the OpenAI
versus anthropic story because uh you've
mentioned a part of the structural
pieces this nonprofit. So talk about
just like what happened there and how
that relates to what you talk about
versus anthropic and then I actually
want to hear a little bit about just
actual structure like what is this
two-tier thing? What's the nonprofit
piece? OpenAI is a really hard case
study to learn from because it's such a
bizarre story and has involves like mega
personalities like Elon and Sam like
dueling to the death. So it's
complicated. Um but we can get into it
if you want. But I entered the story.
The funny part is like I have this very
I played a very big role in all this.
Okay? So I'm not an important actor in
this story at all. I take no credit for
anthropic success. All the credit to
Daario and Daniellea and the whole team.
Uh but when they left OpenAI, this is
two or three OpenAI crises ago,
depending on how you count. They left
and they wanted to start Anthropic. Now
today, people are like, "Oh, sure it
works for Anthropic. They're a
worldbeating company." But like Dario
was a first-time founder. I was there,
okay? He was impressive, but like in the
way that a technical founder for the
first time is impressive, you know? And
he had investors who were excited to
back him, but they were like effective
altruism like true believers. wasn't the
top venture fund. None of the top
venture funds wanted to participate in
this round. It wasn't a hot company at
all by modern standards. And Generative
AI, the boom, hadn't happened yet. Chad
GPT hadn't been invented yet. So the
mass psycho this mass psychosis we're
all living through had not occurred yet.
Nonetheless, they were true believers in
this safety mission. And so one of their
investors suggested they come talk to
me.
I was like um everyone knew I was like
an eccentric collector of weird ideas,
you know, like some people collect
butterfly wings or whatever. I collected
alternative governance ideas. So when
they came to me, I I was walking them
through the same horror story I'm
telling you today. I told them, look, if
you don't get this right, here's what's
going to happen. And they were very
determined to do something about it. And
so we talked about what we should do.
And I and I advise a again a very little
bit. I don't I don't take the credit for
what happened next, but they wrote into
their charter that they were going to do
this. They were a PPC from the very
beginning and they wrote into their
charter that they had the right to enact
these additional reforms which they had
to defend all credit to them for taking
it seriously for convincing their
investors and they had to defend it for
like two years because they didn't
actually implement what's called now the
long-term benefit trust until their
series C. But they had the right and the
intention to do it in all their legal
documents from inception. That was a
really important uh important choice.
And so even today, Anthropic has
directors on its for-profit board who
are appointed by and are accountable to
an outside group of trustees who are AI
safety experts who do not have equity in
Anthropic. So they do not have a
financial incentive in its growth, they
have an incentive to see it done
properly. So whenever you see Anthropic
do the right thing, like when they
refuse to release a model because they
think it's too dangerous, think about
how much that's costing them. People
say, "Well, they do it for the
publicity." But like publicity is nice,
but you know what would be really nice
is having the number one top model that
everyone has to pay you to use. Okay,
that's really nice. They people say that
like they got into this fight with the
Pentagon. And to be clear, I don't think
that they're even the primary actor in
that story. Okay, this is a story of
government overreach. They were an
impossible situation. Even people who
say they did the wrong thing, when
you're in an impossible situation, what
are you going to do? It's the Kobashi
Maru. Like, what are you going to do?
You're in an impossible situation.
There's no right answer. But like even
people who think they did the wrong
thing, like tactically speaking, admire
them because we live in a time when it's
so rare for companies to turn down money
ever. And here they turned down, say
what you want about them, but they
turned down a $200 million contract and
bore the wrath of the world's largest
army and government. Okay, that took a
lot of courage. Part of that courage is
enabled by the fact that they have this
structure and investors can't just oust
Daario on a moment's notice. I think the
structure frankly is better than founder
control. Daio does not have dual class
shares the way that Mark Zuckerberg or
or Larry and Sergey had. Um it's more
institutional in its nature. But to kind
of answer your question, the critical
thing we need if we're going to really
resist outside pressure, we need what I
call a mission guardian. It has to be
somebody or some entity's job to make
sure that the thing remains mission
locked or mission aligned. That does not
happen by accident because gravity is
such a powerful force. So Anthropic's
solution to that is to have a mission
guardian in the form of the long-term
benefit trust. Um OpenAI very famously
had the nonprofit foundation although
now they've converted to a public
benefit corp structure. Obviously Google
and and Facebook are protected by
founder control. The founder is the
mission guardian. Those are the
structures and I I tell the story in the
book a very weird experience I had. I
was literally at the Vatican of all
places. I mean look at me. What am I
doing at the Vatican? No. But it was
cool. Vag had convened a conference on
AI governance
and they invited me to speak. So I was
on this panel at the Vatican with every
other AI company and me. It was weird.
It was actually strange. It was like me
literally me. I go down. I was looking
down the row. Me, Anthropic, OpenAI,
Google, Coher, uh, Palanteer, everyone
on this found this panel together. And I
looked down the panel and I realized not
a single one of these companies has
standard governance. That's how bad it
is. Nobody making this technology would
say, "Oh, yeah, standard governance.
That's fine. I'm sure that it's just too
dangerous.
But they of course take different
approaches to mission guardianship. Some
of which are better, some of worse. Like
founder control, I think actually has a
lot of downsides to it. So, and when you
say standard govern, like every one of
these AI companies is not doing it the
way every other startup is doing. They
understood they needed to do something
different to protect
>> humanity essentially from AI. Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Because otherwise,
it's just this technology is so
valuable. If you say that shareholders
should run it, then you're saying
literally whoever can borrow the most
money should be able to control this
technology, it's just that's nuts. That
can't be how that can't be how it works.
No way. I don't think any company should
be governed that way, but certainly not
AI companies. Certainly not. Okay. So,
just just to kind of plant these things
in people's heads as they Okay, we need
to really think about this stuff.
There's like this uh there's a nonprofit
approach to this. There's what are the
kind of the terms that people should
just think about? So, so we talked about
we need a mission guardian. So, first
question is the mission guardian a
person or a thing. That's our kind of
first decision point. So, yeah, some I I
think for for early stage companies,
founder control is fine as like a good
bridge, a temporary bridge to a more
permanent structure. And some companies
get really far with founder control.
That's okay. But a lot of founders who
have founder control wind up really
miserable as you can see by the fact
they're having a mental health breakdown
right in front of us, all of us on on
social media basically every day because
like you become like Atlas. You can't
even shrug.
It's you holding back the abyss. It's a
lot. So I think a better, more permanent
solution is to encode the protection
into the structure. Now that can be done
with a single entity like Costco. Costco
just has the rules written right into
the structure itself. But that means
that um every time they lose one of the
structures, every once in a while want
an attack chips off a little bit of it.
They don't have any way to grow them
back. So it's like you've built this
fortress but you don't have a way to
renew it. The better way I think
according to the evidence is to have
some stakeholder somebody be the steward
of the mission and have a way to renew
that person that that set of people. So
some people accomplish that by what's
called an employee ownership trust. So
the employees of the mission guardians
um like the John Lewis partnership in
the UK is a famous example. Obviously
cooperatives have this um like this can
work in a cooperative at scale. Mandreon
for example in Spain has like 80,000
employees. It's a huge company, but
they're all employee cooperatives. You
can do it through an employee voting
trust. That's how Alibaba is protected
where the employees vote for the board
members rather than the reverse. But
those are complicated
compared to to me the two simplest
solutions are either a nonprofit
foundation as in the Nova Nordisk
example or in the case of what's called
the perpetual purpose trust or PPT. And
perpetual purpose trust is a
non-economic entity. So whereas like the
Nova Nordisk Foundation is the largest
charitable foundation in the world
because it owns it owns a big chunk of
Nova Nordisk and that's worked out
pretty well. Um the anthropic long-term
benefit trust is has no economic
dimension to it at all. It only has the
mission oversight responsibility. And
what's nice about a perpetual purpose
trust um as in the case of Patagonia is
governed with a a purpose trust also is
you you have the trustees but then you
also have someone whose job is is
actually to sue the trustees if they
ever deviate from the mission. So you
actually what's called the purpose
protector is like an extra person who
can get in there and say like if things
go wrong. So you have kind of to me it's
like you have checks and balances like
in a government. Um it's more stable uh
it's a more stable structure. To me
though I use the omnibus term spiritual
holding company to describe this
category of things because I said before
we have a lot of infighting. The people
who advocate for each of these things
thinks their version is the best. And I
didn't even mention the evergreen the
tugboat foundation. They don't believe
in having investors at all.
So there's people who think the solution
to this is no investors involved. That
makes the problem a lot easier. So
anyway, there's a lot of different ways
this can be done. I don't think I even
mentioned ESOPS. There just so many. So
we need to have an omnibus term. I call
it the spiritual holding company. The
holding company like the Bergkshire
Hathaway, but rather than having
everything be wholly owned. It's the
holding company for the spirit, the
animating essence of the whole. And I
has a lot of evidence in the book, a lot
that this structure is more stable, more
durable, more likely to invest in
quality in R&D and the things we really
care about and better for shareholders
than the conventional structure.
>> If this all sounds like a huge drag and
a lot of work and really annoying, I'd
say go back an hour when we talked a lot
about just what is it you were trying to
avoid and the pain.
>> Yes, that's the thing. It's like, well,
you know what's really a drag? I'll tell
you a story. The a friend of mine got
ousted by his investors. Okay. And I was
going to this party to celebrate him.
And it was like people had flown in from
all over the country to celebrities he
laid off came to this party. It must
have been a thousand people there. It
was amazing. And I was describing to a
new founder like I'm sorry I can't help
you with your company right now. I got
to go to this party. And he was like
okay. I'm describing to him and he was
just like wow what respect that founder
sounds. That's just the kind of company
I want to create. I'm like, "Dude, you
have not been listening to anything I'm
saying. He doesn't work there anymore.
He's like Saul Price. This is not a
party. This is awake." He was like,
"What? Did he die?" "No, man. He didn't
die. Did the company go bankrupt?" "No,
the company's fine." That's not the
problem. The new And he was like, "Do
you is the new CEO an or
something?" I was like, "No, I like the
new CEO. He's a friend of mine also.
Perfectly fine. The problem is" He's
like, "What's the problem? The problem
is if a company can be decapitated at
any time, you can no longer trust it.
All the promises that this company had
made over its 15year life, nobody
believes them anymore. The new CEO is
like going around making new promises,
but we're like, an activist investor
owning.5% of the company can oust you at
any time. Why should I believe anything
you say? And then we're like, why is
trust collapsing in our institutions
across the board? We are teaching a
leadership philosophy that is antirust,
antirustworthy.
So yeah, if it sounds like if it sounds
like this sounds like a bummer to have
to worry about this stuff, you know
what's really a bummer? Come to that
party with me. That sucks.
And that's a founder who made literally
billions of dollars for his investors,
but it wasn't enough. It's never enough.
and hearing hearing these from you is so
is important and powerful because you
you see so many founders like I don't
there's few people in the world that see
the number of founders meet with the
number of founders work with as many
startups as you and like this is not an
easy place you're in trying to convince
people to do these very annoying things
>> it's very annoying I know I do agree
>> and so it just says a lot that you're
putting yourself out there this much for
you guys pay attention this is even
though it feels weird now the ideas this
should not this should be
>> our grandkids will think this is the was
the most obvious thing they've ever
heard about. So yeah, you can you can
get you can get ahead of it now. You
know, people when I first started
talking about lean startup, people
thought it was so weird.
>> As weird as you think this is, people
thought lean startup was a lot weirder.
So like I've been through this before.
And
when I when I write, I don't write very
many books, okay? I'm not like an
influencer. I don't I don't tweet every
30 minutes. Like I'm not that kind of
person. It takes me years to put these
things together. And I only do it when I
have figured something out that like I
have personally lived myself and found
useful in my own work and I've helped
lots of other people do it. So it takes
me a long time because I it takes a lot
of experimentation, a lot of testing.
Like this is the work of hundreds and
hundreds of companies who have who I
have worked had a chance to work with
and seen what works and what doesn't
work. So the pain that I'm describing to
you is like this is not some
hypothetical thing. I'm not I'm not
trying to trick you into something. I
have nothing to sell you. This is just
what the data shows can prevent this
like epidemic of value destruction that
we're seeing all over our economy.
>> So maybe it's just a final uh tactic say
an early stage founder is listening to
this and like oh I got to really do
some here. What are say three things
they should do in the next week or two?
>> Okay, here just let's just let's just do
the really easiest things. First of all,
if you haven't raised money yet or
you've only done raised money on safes,
okay? You can do absolutely whatever you
want. So, do not waste this moment.
Everyone's in such a rush to get big,
such a rush for the next thing, but you
have a precious, precious moment here.
The founders who have already raised
their series A or they're in preip like
the founders that you envy, they're
ahead of you. It's more of a pain for
them. They got to go get investors on
board. They got to go, they they need to
do it. Okay, I told you the next best
time to plant a tree is today. Okay, so
they still have to do it, but you have
an incredible privilege.
Just please, please, please do because
here are the basic things I think are
really easy to do that are super low
cost. Um, be a public benefit corp. Do
the file, but that's so easy. And write
a mission there that is something you
really will feel good about. And the way
the test for if you wrote the right
thing is try to brainstorm with your
co-founder, not for like you don't need
to spend like 10 weeks on this, like
spend an hour and just adversarial
prompting. Okay? Can you think of any
way you could make money while violating
this statement? And if you can, would
you be happy or sad in that scenario? If
you'd be sad, write it. Write it into
the thing. Don't let your don't ever be
a situation where you're rich and
miserable. Write it down. Okay, easy.
Second thing that's super easy. We
didn't get a chance to talk about I call
it the director's oath. This came up
obviously because there's this big fight
going on between uh Anthropic and Figma
and and a reporter just just got
reported um you know reported on the
idea because it was like what what are
our responsibilities in these weird
situations? It's actually really tricky.
Every company's calling me being like is
it are you saying I can't have an AI
person on my board because having an AI
person on my board seems really
dangerous. But I was like you know
what's really dangerous? Not having an
AI person on your board. So yeah like
everyone's kind of stuck. What do we do?
It's impossible situation. We need to
have like just like we have doctors have
a hypocratic oath first do no harm. Why
don't we have that for directors? It's
insane to me. Directors control like
have far more make far more
consequential decisions than nurses. So
why do we hold nurses to a higher
standard than directors? No. So you we
can wait for us to standardize on an
oath for everybody, but you could
implement one right now. You could just
write it into your corporate charter.
Everyone has to do this. It's a
precondition of being on the board. And
then the third thing is I'm going to
presume again for founders, we'll talk
about non-founders in a second, but for
founders, I'm going to presume you've
already got what are called founders
preferred shares. If you don't know what
that is, you need to ask an LLM to
explain it to you. And just say, Eric
said founders preferred shares could
potentially make me like personally an
extra billion dollars someday. So, can
you explain to me why? Type that prompt
and read what it says. You need to
understand the economics of what are
called founders preferring. So, I'm
going to assume that you understand that
and you've already done it. If you
haven't, that don't that doesn't count
on my bill of extra things you needed to
do because you needed to do that anyway
for personal reasons. But if you have
that, then that's the logical place to
do things like founder control, extra
votes, board votes for board control,
stuff like that. So, so talk to your
lawyer about um about what are called
mission protected provisions. If your
lawyer is kind of being a drag or you
don't like having to pay them by the
hour, I actually helped start a law firm
just because this drives me crazy. So,
there's a law firm called Virgil.
They'll be happy to help you and they
don't charge you by the hour. Um, this
is not the main thing that they do. They
mostly do AI assisted back office
acceleration, which is also very cool.
But anyway, you make sure you have
somebody you can talk to about it. Okay?
And then after you figured out which of
those things you want to do, then put
yourself, imagine yourself in the seat
of an investor saying, "It sounds like
you're a greedy sob. You're all this
power for yourself. You're like a power-
hungry emperor. Why do you want to be
emperor for life?" So, you don't want to
be emperor for life. Right now, we kind
of have this dichotomy between what I
call investor controlled companies and
founder controlled companies. And
everyone's like, "You got to pick one or
the other." But neither alternative is
very good. What we want to create are
what I call mission controlled
companies. So a mission controlled
company is one where the mission itself
has sovereignty.
And so if you're feeling a little greedy
about grabbing all this power for
yourself, that's the time to do
something like the anthropic LTBT. It's
very easy to implement in the early
stages because you don't need a
nonprofit. Like let's say you don't want
to be Nova Nordisk. You don't actually
have to boot up the nonprofit right now.
All you have to do is write it into the
charter the way Anthropic did. Just say
10% of the equity is hereby pledged to a
nonprofit foundation and 1% of future
revenue. the foundation gets a board
seat or whatever you want to say. Like
those things are really easy. Just write
them into your charter, fire and forget
and then boot it up later, but make sure
you have the right to do it now. Those
are the bare minimum easiest things in
the book to do. Um a total piece of
cake.
>> It's interesting how so much of this is
similar to not similar but uh to AGI
alignment, finding a way to align AI,
finding a way to align your your
business.
>> It's not a coincidence. Okay, there's a
deep philosophical reason why this comes
up.
>> I'll give you the simple version and
then we'll do the complicated version.
The simple version is who aligns the
aligners.
>> This is the number one unsolved problem
in AI. It's not the tech. We're making
great progress on the technical
alignment problem. But we haven't made
jack progress on the human alignment
problem which is that we've known since
the development of Conway's laws
Conway's law decades ago that software
products the organizational imprint of
the humans who make the software shows
up in the technical architecture of the
software like it's really weird actually
we don't think about it that much but
like the org chart is visible in the
architecture diagram why because human
values flow from the parent to the child
so that's one reason we have to make
sure that that that If you're trying to
solve the alignment problem, but you
can't agree on what the human values are
to align to, you're already cooked. But
the deeper and more interesting problem,
I don't know, I don't know if your
listeners will be familiar with this or
not. There's this concept in the
scientific literature called emergent
intelligence. And I write about it in
the book because corporations,
organizations are the oldest form of
artificial intelligence on the planet.
They are an example of this emergent
intelligence. The same scientific
principle that makes the transformer
architecture work. and appear
intelligent. That same principle is at
work in organizations. Organizations are
literally super organisms. They are
alive in the same way that these models
are emergent intelligences. And if you
don't know what this is, it can sound
very metaphysical and weird and spooky.
So if you want a physical demonstration,
I promise no metaphysics required. One
of my favorite demonstrations of
emergent intelligence, I don't know,
maybe Lenny, maybe you can link the
video. Um I have it in the book, too.
There's a video where researchers
created this thing they called the piano
movers puzzle. You remember that famous
clip that I don't know if you know the
meme of friends where they're trying to
get the couch down the stairwell and
he's like pivot pivot pivot. People send
it to me all the time for obvious
reasons.
>> Um they created a version of that puzzle
that they had ants solve. So visualize
there's like two slits, two walls with a
gap in each wall and a big Ibeam shaped
irregular object. And if you watch a
human solve the puzzle, it goes like
this. They like try one thing. They
think about it, they rearrange you. You
go back, you back. You know, you've ever
got to do a puzzle like that. You can
just tell watching the video that an
intelligent person is trying to solve
this puzzle because they try logical
things that don't work and then they
learn. If you give one ant this puzzle,
he cannot solve it obviously. But put a
thousand ants in there and they can
solve the puzzle. And if you watch the
video of the ant colony solving this
puzzle, you will swear you can see an
intelligence at work because it does
just like a human. It tries something,
it pauses to consider, it re reorients,
tries something different. It's spooky.
And the researchers found this is what
we have to understand for humans. The
more ants you put in the puzzle, the
faster the solution.
But the more humans you add, the worse.
Unless the humans are very carefully
aligned,
this is the key lesson for
organizational design. We are birthing
these things left and right. And if we
don't tend to them properly, they
develop emergent characteristics that we
don't like. We don't want that to be
like that. And no amount of founder mode
is going to clean that up because you're
talking about something that's deep in
the in the DNA of the thing you made.
Beware. What I'm hearing here is we
should be hiring more ants for our
organizations.
Um,
>> Eric, we've given people a lot to think
about. I think there's a lot of just
like, "Oh, wow. I should really think
about this and take this seriously.
What's a final thought, final nugget,
final lesson you want to leave listeners
with before we get out of here?" Let's
talk about Mary Parker Flet. I mentioned
her in passing and I feel like, you know
what? I bet a bunch of people have never
heard of her. So, let me let me give you
one more one more blast from the past.
Most people have heard of someone named
Frederick Winsow Taylor. Fred Taylor is
a good friend of mine. You know, one of
the pioneering original management
theorists. You know, he wrote the
principles of scientific management in
1911. And tailorism was one of the most
popular management fads of all time. If
you think we have fads now, you should
see Taylorism. It was like debated at
the Supreme Court. It was front page
news in the 19s. Taylor, they made
movies about him. He was an incredibly
famous person. But one of his
contemporaries was a woman, her name was
Mary Parker Flet. and her work is so far
ahead of its time that if you read it
today, you would think you were this
person lived in 2026. She would write
things like um we need to focus on power
with not power over. She said the
superior and the subordinate together
obey the law of the situation. Meaning
we work together to figure out what the
situation requires. We don't just tell
the subordinate what to do. She said the
job of a leader, the the the hallmark of
a leader is can they create more
leaders. So like if someone said that to
you right now, you'd be like, "Oh,
that's going on TikTok right the
second." Like Twitter, that's awesome.
What podcast was that on? No, she wrote
that in 1920. Um now, unfortunately, for
reasons you probably can guess, she was
utterly erased from history. Like her
work was utterly lost. Nobody studied it
at all for most of the 20th century. And
then it was totally rediscovered and she
and and was republished in the 1990s.
The great Peter Ducker called her the
prophet of management. Okay, so one of
her most important concepts is what she
called the invisible leader. And I just
love this. She just imagine someone a
woman in 1920 going around saying this
to people how it would blow their minds.
She would say, "Mr. Roundtree,
the owner of the Roundtree Chocolate
Factory, is not the leader of the
Roundtree Chocolate Factory."
And people be like, "Lady, what are you
talking about? His name is on the door.
His family has owned this thing. Like,
what? How? If he's not the leader, who
is?" She'd be like, "Glad you asked."
Mr. Roundtree is an excellent leader
because he's very good at instilling in
his people the sense of common purpose
of what this factory is about. And the
common purpose rather than Mr. Roundtree
himself is their invisible leader. And
this is maybe the most powerful concept.
If you if you want to manage something
like as a leader, you have to understand
that the most consequential decisions
that will affect any organization's life
are almost by definition made when no
manager is present.
You think you made the decision when you
told everybody, "We're going to build a
high-quality product. Our vision is
this. Our plan is this." But you're not
there when the product managers and the
designers and the engineers make the
actual tradeoffs, right? somebody
sitting there with the code and being
like rounded corners or straight
corners, skuorphism or not. When person
clicks this button, do we double check?
Do we understand what they meant or do
we just erase their hard drive? Right?
Like thousands upon thousands of these
tiny little decisions get made. Only the
invisible leader is present. So if you
don't cultivate that sense of common
purpose, you have no control over what's
going to happen. Again, your promises
are worthless. So if you want found want
a little homework, read Mary Parker,
follow it. Uh she will she will
enlighten you.
>> If any of this is at all interesting to
you, if you want to explore this, if you
want to implement it, buy Eric's book,
Incorruptible, is there a website to
look at or just Google and find it?
>> Yes. Yes, of course. You can find it
anywhere books are sold. Um but yes, we
do have a website, incorruptible.co.
Please join the mailing list. We have
tons of bonus content, especially for
those who are impleers. We have
implementation guides and advanced
implementation guides and readers
guides. Lots of extra content, uh,
including a secret chapter that got cut
from the original manuscript. Tried to
make it really worth your while to go to
the website, pre-order, and sign up for
the mailing list. Um, but you don't have
to buy it from me. You can buy the book
anywhere books are sold. It's in hard
coverver. It's in uh audiobook and ebook
if you want to. One of my favorite
things about the website, we have a list
of I more than hundred last time I
counted of local independent bookstores
that are carrying the book and where you
could order online. So, if you want to,
not only could you do me a favor and buy
a copy or 10 or 20 or however many you
want and give them away, but if you'd
like to make the day of your local
independent bookstore, you want to
support a local community like a pillar
of your community and be their favorite
customer, you call them up and say, "I
have this book coming out. I'd like a
bunch of copies to give away. Can I get
them on launch day?" You your friends
will thank you. The bookstore will thank
you. And I will thank you.
>> A great pitch. Incorruptible. Why good
companies go bad and how great companies
stay great. Eric Ree, thank you so much
for being here.
>> Hey, thank you, Lenny. Appreciate
Appreciate you giving the chance to to
talk about it and congrats on all you're
doing.
>> Thanks, Eric. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show [music] at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.